---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Coding Style
date: 2016-21-30
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - JavaScript
---

Programming is a long, complicated process that can involve thousands of lines of code.
Any time someone new is added to the programming team, they must go through the source code and figure out what is going on.
How long this takes depends on how well the code is organized.
If the code is messy, it can take much longer for a new programmer to figure out what is actually going on.

  because of this code style standards have become a nessisty in any programming environment.
  to aliviate this problem, some programmers have designed common standards for coding
  Common coding standards have arisen from this issue.
 Eventually, someone decided that they were sick of reading through messy and sloppy code, so they decided to create common standards.


Coding statndards are a very important part of any coding language.
they help to keep everything organized and looking neat and tidy.
coding standards are desigined to reduce small misteakes and make code overall more readable.
learning a coding standard can sometimes be tricky.
some coding standards will not allow you to use certain functions that you could otherwise use in your program
This usually only happens when there is a safer, or more readable option available.
using a coding standart makes your code more attractive to customers, as well as other programmers.
Coding standards are around to make the work for a programmer easier.
Eslint is an auotmated program desinged to enforce a coding standard.


Eslint is a tool designed specifically for enforcing javascript standards.
Whats nice about eslint, is that they dont force a standard on you.
You can define any sort of standard that you would like and eslint will enforce it.
Eslint can opperate as a plugin for intellij IDE, making it desriable for intellij users.
This tool will scan through your source code as you write it, so the information is more or less realtime.
Any infractions of the coding standared will be marked with a red line uder them, much like when you spell a word incorectly in microsoft word.
Coding standards and specifcally eslint are very good for begining programmers.
coding standards remove a lot of the small simple mistakes that programmers make.
Eslint enforces a coding standards, and when usuing intellij the errors apear inline.
This appeals to newer programmers as they can see the error right in the code.
Whereas with out eslint the programmer would have to run the code, then get an error message, then figure out what it means.


Before turning in an assignment, I proof read my code, and make sure that it is up to the required standard.
Eslint has made this process obsselete.
Since ESlint is always reading the document, if you make a mistake, Eslint will notify you of the infraction.
This gives the programmer a chance to immeditaly rectfiy the problem.
This removes the necsessity to proof read code, for syntax errors, before turning it in.
This ultimately makes the programmer more efficient.
